---
title: List of lists
layout: post
date: 2024-12-31
author: Yoyo Yuan
tags:
    - lists
    - personal
show_on_home: true
image: /assets/images/list.webp
---

Here are some of my favourite things over the years.


### Strongest influences 
- Nicky Case. The data point that skewed my existence the most. Relatable on so many levels.
- Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman!
- Genius trilogy - I discovered the book when I was 14 years old (2019) and have been actively reshaping my world to build sci-fi like things with self-taught geeks.
- Friendship is optimal: Caelum est conterrens - Absolutely fascinating! I felt super excited about speculative neurotechnologies, AGI, and the metaverse. I got pulled in the rationality community in summer 2021 where I lurked in lwcw and discovered such a thing as "tpot".
- Quora: Spent too much time reading there in early high school (2018 - 2020).
- Hopscotch: Children's coding language, how I learned English (2014 - 2016). I spammed a lot of code, posts and knew all the cool users.

### Music
- Portal: Still Alive.
- Waterflame: Theme of skyworld.
- Aphex Twin - T69 collapse
- Who Knows - Lime Lorelei
- 



### Random books I enjoyed as a kid 
- What if? xkcd
- The universe in a nutshell
- Linus Pauling and the chemistry of life
- The man who knew infinity
- Marie Curie: A biography
- The Elegant Universe
- Shape of a Life
- Through the worm hole
- The end of eternity
- Parallel worlds
- Deep undercover
- The faithful spy: Dietrich Bonhoeffer and the plot to kill Hitler
- The book thief
- His dark materials trilogy
- Dr. Peyam, blackpenredpen, Flammable Maths, Michael Penn, vihart, 3b1b (+ numerous other underrated math/physics resources)

Not great at keeping exact readlogs haha. There were also STEM podcasts/videos/books in Chinese. One of my favourite things to do was to recite celestial objects, write fanfics about controversial peer reviews.


### Music
[Prelude XIII - Datura V2](https://soundcloud.com/ashish-kumar-6/prelude-xiii-or-datura-v2?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)